{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b\f0\fs28 1. State whether the following statement are true of false.\par
\fs22                                 \ul\fs28 list\par
\ulnone 1. python lists are mutable.\par
2. lists are depicted through curly brackets only.\par
3. Extend function is used to add multiple items in a lists.\par
                                           \ul tuples \ulnone\par
4. An element in a dictionary  is a combination of key-value pair.\par
5. we can repeat a key in dictionary.\par
6. internally , dictionaries are indexed on the basis of values.\par
7. In dictionary , two unique key  can  have the same values .\par
8.  A tuple is a mutable data type.\par
9. Lists can be used as keys in a dictionary .\par
10. updating an element in a dictionary at runtime is possible.\par
11. We can create immutable dictionaries in python.\fs36\par
\fs28                                      \ul lists\par
\ulnone 1. Consider the following :\par
List ['h','o','i']\par
The length  of the above list is :\par
\b0 (a). 5                        (b). 3                       (c). 0                          (d). none of  these\par
\b 2. The list L1 contains [3,4,5,6,6,8,0]\par
What will be output of the following expression ?\par
print(L1[-1]\par
\b0 (a). 0                         (b). 3                       (c). 5                         (d).8\par
\b 3. Which of the following statemants is correct about list?\par
\b0 (a). List can contain values of mixed data type.\par
(b). List can contain only interger values.\par
(c). A list with no elements is called an empty list .\par
(d). All of these\par
\b 4. Consider the following lists:\par
 L1=["this","is","a","list"]\par
 L2=["this","is","another"]\par
which of the following statements will result in an error?\par
\b0 (a). L1=L2                                                         (b). L1.upper()\par
(c). L2[1][1].upper()                                     (c). L2.upper()\par
                        \ul\b Tuples\ulnone\b0\par
\b 5.Which of the statement(s) is /are correct?\par
\b0 (a). Python Dictionary is an unordered collection of items.\par
(b). Python Dictionary is an mapping of unique keys to values.\par
(c). Dictionary is mutable .\par
(d). All of these \par
\b 6. if tup=(20,30, 40,50), which of the following is incorrect?\par
\b0 (a). print(tup[3])                                               (b). tup[2]=56\par
(c). print(max(tup))                                          (d). print(len(tup))\par
\b 7. Consider two tuples given below :\par
      tup1=(1,2,4,3)\par
      tup2=(1,2,3,4)\par
what will the following statement print: print(tup1<tup2)\par
\b0 (a). True                     (b). False                    (c). Error            (d).none of these \par
\b 8. which function  returns the number of elements in the tuple?\par
\b0 (a). len()                    (b). max()                   (c). min()              (d). count()\par
\b 9.  keys of a Dictionary must be \par
\b0 (a). similar                                                        (b). Unique \par
(c). can be similar or unique                        (d). all of these\par
\b 10. Which function is used to remove all items from a particular dictionary?\par
\b0 (a).clear()                                                           (b). pop() \par
(c). delete()                                                        (d). rem()\par
\b\fs36 SOLVED QUESTIONS \par
lists\par
\fs28 1. write the output of the following :\par
\b0 (a) str1='book'\par
       print(list(str1))\par
(b). L = [2,4,5,6,2,3,4,4,7]\par
        count = L.count (4)\par
        print(count)\par
(c). L =[10, 45 ,  2, 20, 30 , 40]\par
      L.sort()\par
      print(L)\par
      L.reverse()\par
      print(L)\par
(d). L = ['p',  'w',  'r',  'd', 'a']\par
        L.remove('r')\par
        ptint(L.pop())\par
        del L[1]\par
        print(L)\par
(e). L1 = [10,20,30,40]\par
        L1.clear()\par
        print(L1)\par
\b 2. WAP to display unique and duplicate items of a given list.\par
Ans. \b0 L1=[2,7,1,4,9,5,1,4,3]\par
          L2=[]\par
          L3=[]\par
          for i in L1:\par
             if i not in L2:\par
                L2.append (i)\par
             else:\par
             L3.append(i)\par
          print(L2)\par
          print(L3)\b\par
3. WAP to enter a string and count the number of words in the given string .\par
Suppose string is:\par
i am fine\par
output should be \par
number of word =3\par
Ans. \b0 str1=input("enter a sentence:")\par
           L=str1.split ()\par
           count+=1\par
           for i in range(len(L)):\par
              count+=1\par
           print('number of word =', count)\b\par
4. WAP to display frequencies of all the element of a list.\par
Ans.\par
5. WAP in python, where list 'L' is passed as an argument. display  those string which are string with 'A'.\par
L=["RINKU","AUSHIM",  "VIJAYA", "AKHTAR", "LEENA", "TARUN", "AMAR"]\par
Ans. \b0 L=["RINKU","AUSHIM",  "VIJAYA", "AKHTAR", "LEENA", "TARUN", "AMAR"]\par
         count =0\par
for i in L:\par
       if i[0] in ('aA'):\par
            count+=1\par
                print(i)\par
              print("apperaing " , count, "times")\par
\ul\b Tuple\ulnone\b0\par
\b 6. Write the output of the following codes :\par
    \b0 (a). d1 =\{1:10,2 :20, 3:30,4:40\}\par
            d2=\{5:50,6:60, 7:70\}\par
             d1.update(d2)\par
             print(d1)\par
    (b). d1= \{1:10,2:20,3:30,4:40,5:50,6:60,7:70\}\par
            d1.pop(5)\par
            print(d1)\par
     (c). d1=\{1:10,2:20,3:30,4:40,5:50,6:60,7 :70\}\par
             len(d1)\par
            d1.get(6,60)\par
            d1[6] =65\par
             d1[8]=35\par
             print(d1)\par
             d1.clear()\par
             print(d1)\par
\b 7. Write a python program  to display all the element of the following tuple except 'd'.\par
\b0  t1=('w', 'o', 'r','d','s')\par
\b 8. Write a python program to display to remove an element '3' from the following  tuple:   (imp)\par
\b0    t1= (1,2,,3,4,5)\par
\b 9. \b0 t1=(10,20,"book",30,9.5,"item",[12,13],(3,4),30,5,30)\par
   \b Consider the above tuple 't1' and answer the following questions:\par
\b0 (a). len(t1)                                          \par
(b). t1\b  \b0 [:6]\par
(c). t1.index (20)\par
(d). t1[5:]\par
\b 10. Write a python program to input 'n' names and phone number to store it in a dictionary and  print the phone number of a particular name.\par
\b0 phone=dict()\par
i=1\par
n=int (input ("enter number of entries:"))\par
while i<=n:\par
  a=input("enter name:")\par
  b=input("enter phone no:")\par
  phone [a]=b\par
  i = i+1\par
l= phone .keys()\par
x=input ("enter name to be searched:")\par
for i in l:\par
  if i==x:\par
        print(x.":phone no is : "phone [i])\par
        break\par
else:\par
   print(x, "does not exist")\par
\b\fs36 UNSOLVED QUESTIONS\par
                  \ul  lists\par
\ulnone\fs28 1. What is the difference between insert() and append() methods of a list?\par
2. Suppose \b0 L=[10, ["few", "facts", "fun"], 3,'Good']\par
\b   Consider the above list and answer the following :\par
\b0 (a). L[3:]                                        (b). L[::2]\par
(c). L[1\fs36 :\fs28 2]                                     (d).  L[1][1]\par
\b 3. Find  the output of the following :\par
\b0 L1=[1,2,3]\par
L2=[4,5,6]\par
print(L1+list("45"))\par
print(L1.pop())\par
L1.remove(2)\par
print(L1)\par
L1.extend(L2)\par
print(L2)\par
\b 4. Suppose \par
\b0 d1=\{1:'one',2:'two',3:'three', 4:'four'\}\par
d2=\{5:'five', 6:'six'\}\par
\b Writr the output of the following code:\par
\b0 >>>d1.items()\par
>>>d1.keys()\par
>>>d1.values()\par
>>>d1.update(d2)\par
>>>len(d1)\b\par
5. Write a program to input any values for two tuples. print it, interchange it, and then compare them.\b0\par
 \par
}
 